# PyNeuroTrace: Python code for Neural Timeseries

## Visualization examples

(TODO - being cleaned up)

A number of tools for vizualizing the data are provided within [viz.py](https://github.com/padster/pyNeuroTrace/blob/master/pyneurotrace/pyneurotrace/viz.py), including:
* `plotIntensity(data, hz, branches, stim, title)` generates a 2D intensity image, with rows being nodes and columns being samples of data. The intensity is normalized, ranging from black (lowest), to red, to yellow, and finally white (highest). Optionally, branch colors can be indicated on the left, and stimulus start/stop times can be shown below.
* `plotLine(data, hz, branches, stim, title, split)` generates line graphs for the provided traces. This accepts similar parameters to the intensity graph, as well as the ability to split lines into their own section of the y chart.
* `plotAveragePostStimIntensity(data, hz, stimOff, stimOn)` averages post-stimulus responses for off and on stimuli, and renders them for each node as an intensity graph.
* `plotAveragePostStimTransientParams` takes the response shape for all the nodes, fits a double-exponential curve, and shows histograms of the best parameters (A, t0, tA, tB) to get an idea of consistency across the nodes.
* `plotPlanarStructure` plots the node (X, Y) positions, and parent-child edges, plus branch colors.
* `planarAnimation` does similar to plotPlanarStructure, however the color of each node point is the intensity provided, and a movie is generated by iterating through all time points to give a visual representation of localized intensity changes.
